In this lecture, I'll be talking about
Interpod Affinity and anti-affinity.
This mechanism allow you to influence scheduling
based on the labels of other pods
that are already running on the cluster.
Pods belong to a namespace, so your affinity rules
will apply to a specific namespace.
If no namespace is given in specification,
it defaults to the namespace of the pod.
Similar to node affinity,
you have two types of pod affinity and anti affinity.
You have the requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution,
and the preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution.
The required type, the first one, creates rules
that must be met for the pod to be scheduled,
the preferred type is a soft type,
and the rules may be met.
So in the preferred type, the pods should always
be scheduled in the first one.
If the rules are not met,
then the pod will not be scheduled.
So Interpod Affinity and anti-affinity
is very similar to the node affinity and anti-affinity,
just that here we do it not pod level in a namespace,
instead of a node level.
A good use case for pod affinity is co-located pods.
You might want that one pod is always co-located
on the same node with another pod.
For example, you have an app that uses redis as a cache,
and you want to have the redis pod always
on the same node as the app itself.
Another use case is to co-locate pods
within the same availability zone.
So either same as a previous use case,
but rather than on the machine basis,
you can do it on an availability zone basis.
So then the pods are co-located
within the same availability zone.
If you have multiple zones,
then these pods will only be scheduled within one zone.
When writing your pod affinity and anti-affinity rules,
you need to specify a topology domain,
called topologyKey in the rules.
The topologyKey refers to a node label.
If the affinity rule matches,
the new pod will only be scheduled on the nodes
that have the same topologyKey value
as the current running pod.
This is a bit hard to understand without an example,
so let me show you an example.
Here we have two nodes,
and we have one pod on our Node2 called pod,
and it has a label app with a value myapp.
You want to schedule a new pod on the left here
that has the label app equals redis.
This pod has this in it's specification.
It has podAffinity
requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution,
it has a labelSelector,
and the matchExpressions is app in myapp.
So it's going to match this app here,
this pod here on the right,
and when it matches, then the topologyKey is imported.
Here we access the topologyKey is kubernetes.io/hostname.
So there's a hostname over the node.
So if the expression matches,
then this pod will be scheduled on the node
that has the same topologyKey value.
So the value of kubernetes.io/hostname
is Node2 in this case, so this pod will only be scheduled
on a node that has this label
kubernetes.io/hostname equals Node2,
and this is only one hostname,
so that's gonna be Node2.
So then the new pod is scheduled on Node2, and not on Node1.
Let me show you another example.
Here we have three nodes.
Node1 and 2 are in eu-west-1a,
and Node3 is in eu-west-1b.
So the first two are in the same zone.
We want to schedule a new pod, this has a label
app equals db, and pod affinity is exactly the same
as the previous one, except the last line.
In last line, we say topologyKey is the
failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone.
So here, if our expression is true the expression is here
app in myapp, so if there's a pod app equals myapp,
and it is true, then this new pod will be scheduled
on a node with a label
failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone equals
the same as a node where the pod is running on.
So pod app equals myapp is running on Node2.
Node2 has a zone eu-west-1a,
so the new pod is going to be scheduled either on
Node1 or either on Node2, but never on Node3.
So, if you have replication by Node2,
then the chances are high that one gets scheduled on Node1,
and one gets scheduled on Node2.
So never on Node3.
So this is a difference with the topologyKey.
Contrary to affinity,
you might want to use pod anti-affinity.
You can use anti-affinity to make sure a pod
is only scheduled once on a node for example.
For example we have three nodes,
and you want to schedule two pods,
but they shouldn't be scheduled on the same node.
Pod anti-affinity allows you to create a rule that says
to not schedule on the same host if a pod label matches.
So here we have again two nodes.
We have a pod running, which is app equals myapp,
and we're going to schedule a new pod
with the label app equals db.
Now we're going to use pod anti-affinity in a specification,
the expression is still app in myapp.
So it'll match the current running pod,
and the topologyKey is the hostname.
Because it is anti-affinity, it will not schedule
when the expression matches on the same hostname.
So where does it go?
It goes to Node1, because Node1
has a different hostname than Node2.
So this is basically just a reverse of pod affinity.
Anti-affinity make sure that it doesn't get scheduled
on the node with the same topologyKey value.
When writing pod affinity rules,
you can use the following operators: In, NotIn.
Does the label have one of the values that you specify?
And Exists, DoesNotExist.
Does a label exist or not?
Interpod affinity and anti-affinity
currently requires a substantial amount of processing.
You might have to take this into account
if you have a lot of rules and a large cluster.
For example, if you have more than 100 nodes.
And then, in the next demo, I will show you
an example of Interpod Affinity and anti-affinity.